Re:  Florence Vincent's "Vote Democrat"
https://yelmonline.com/stories/vote-democrat-to-help-regular-people,363227?fbclid=IwY2xjawF2sMlleHRuA2FlbQIxMQABHSZs8dWqvZtig2X3tDXJcKkyEfQJaGOLNObdZk78xfB_pHo90_pI56yNgg_aem_dX8WBMXyEHeVVFkOQ_yEew
Ms. Vincent claims, without giving reference to sources...  essentially...  "red states bad/blue states not as bad".  As someone familiar with process improvement, I prefer "good" and "better."  But let's look at a couple of metrics she ignores.

Covid:  The most dangerous place to be in the US during Covid was in an assisted living center... in a blue state with a Democrat Governor.  By about March of 2020 the CDC was reporting HALF OF ALL US COVID MORTALITIES were occurring "assisted living" centers ... and over half of those were in three (3) Democrat Controlled States (CDC).  

Further, it was the edicts of the Democrat Governors of those states which were, arguably, the direct cause of those deaths.  That is perhaps why Governors and Legislators moved to grant immunity to the LTC's... to shield themselves from civil litigation if not criminal prosecution.  (ABA: "States Move to Shield LTC Facilities from Civil Liability"... PUBLISHED JULY 22 OF 2020! )

Education:   We don't need to go outside the borders of our own state.  But, nationally, about 64% of the US Population 16-64 is math illiterate; Washington, "only" about 54% are Math illiterate.  Ironically, in Washington, students that did not complete HS did better by about 13% than those that only graduated HS!  (NCES - PIAAC 2016-17)

Focusing on WA K12, on our best year we had a 60% FAILURE rate in getting students to a MINIMUM level of proficiency.  Post Covid that failure rate is holding at 70%.  For Tenino, where Ms. Vincent resides, those number are 70% and 83% FAILURE.

Tenino, where Ms. Vincent evidently resides, the pre-covid best was a 70% FAILURE rate... post Covid it is holding steady at between 83-85% FAILURE.  (OSPI "Report Card") Why?  

Washington's Public K12 is a "closed system" controlled by a union which is regulated by members of other unions.  In fact, virtually every facet of Public K12 and State Government is union (aka Democrat) controlled.  

Unions in the US are there to support their members.  They are not there to support the quality of the service provided or the product produced ... or the consumer.  I have that first hand from an organizer.  This is evidenced by how the Democrats and Unions refused to allow schools (or specifically, teachers) to be held even minimally accountable for Student Performance.

IN 2014, under Democrat/Union control, Washington State lost NCLB funding because it refused to pass legislation requiring that *PART* of a teacher's performance be based on how their students were performing.  Instead, WA Democrats dictated a teacher's salary would be based on the certifications the TEACHER obtained.  The union published out exactly how teachers could maximize that in, as I recall, about five years.  Student performance was absolutely NOT a factor.

It may all be just coincidence the State AG's office organized under Bob Ferguson's tenure... or that Bob did not bring action against the illegal strikes conducted by the Teacher's Unions... or that Bob is endorsed by virtually every union in Washington State... but... it also might not.

For integrity and accountability... DON'T Vote Democrat!



file:///E:/DOWNLOADS/%23%20Most%20Recent/4bc2342d-en%20(1).pdf

Page 81
Mathematics is applied in both routine and complex tasks requiring sophisticated use of fundamental mathematical skills and 'judgement' or 'problem-solving' procedures. Workplace mathematics is performed differently to school mathematics. Mathematical demands may be present implicitly in the workplace tasks, often through tasks that are not obviously mathematical. (Australian Association of Mathematics Teachers (AAMT) and Australian Industry Group (AiGroup), 2014, p. 2[88]) This is consistent with earlier research by Steen in the United States: "Mathematics in the workplace makes sophisticated use of elementary mathematics rather than, as in the classroom, elementary use of sophisticated mathematics. Work-related mathematics is rich in data, interspersed with conjecture, dependent on technology, and tied to useful applications. Work contexts often require multi-step solutions to open-ended problems, a high degree of accuracy, and proper regard for required tolerances. None of these features are found in typical classroom exercises." (Steen, 2004, p. 55[118])
Page 84
Box 3.1. Definitions of mathematical literacy in PISA PISA 2012-2018 definition of mathematical literacy Mathematical literacy is an individual's capacity to formulate, employ, and interpret mathematics in a variety of contexts. It includes reasoning mathematically and using mathematical concepts, procedures, facts and tools to describe, explain and predict phenomena. It assists individuals to recognise the role that mathematics plays in the world and to make the well-founded judgments and decisions needed by constructive, engaged and reflective citizens. (OECD, 2013, p. 25[122]) PISA 2021 definition of mathematical literacy Mathematical literacy is an individual's capacity to reason mathematically and to formulate, employ, and interpret mathematics to solve problems in a variety of real-world contexts. It includes concepts, procedures, facts and tools to describe, explain and predict phenomena. It assists individuals to know the role that mathematics plays in the world and to make the well-founded judgments and decisions needed by constructive, engaged and reflective 21st century citizens. (OECD, 2018, p. 8[123])
Page 90
Big Ideas in mathematics As introduced in the first section, Big Ideas in mathematics, is about describing powerful mathematical ideas central to the learning of mathematics, linking numerous mathematical understandings into a coherent whole [e.g., see (Charles, 2005[6]; Hurst, 2014[7]; Hurst and Hurrell, 2014[8]; Kuntze et al., 2009[9]; Steen, 1990[11])]. Initially, the term "Big Ideas" referred to how mathematical information can be classified in different ways compared with the traditional school mathematics curriculum content areas. Steen (1990[11]), for example, identified six broad categories pertaining to: quantity, dimension, pattern, shape, uncertainty, and change. Rutherford and Ahlgren (1990[143]) described networks of related ideas: numbers, shapes, uncertainty, summarising data, sampling, and Reasoning. Jones and his colleagues (2002[5]) provide a summary of the main contributions of the research to what they call powerful mathematical ideas, which included the following domains: whole number and operations, rational numbers, geometry, probability, data exploration and algebraic thinking and other underrepresented domains. It could be argued that being numerate means using the contents of all these domains not just as procedures (instrumental understanding) but in a critical/meaningful manner.
Page 94
Definition of numeracy for PIAAC Cycle 2 Based on the discussions in the previous section: Conceptual and theoretical foundations, the PIAAC Cycle 2 NEG developed and agreed on a new definition for Cycle 2 of PIAAC numeracy: Numeracy is accessing, using and reasoning critically with mathematical content, information and ideas represented in multiple ways in order to engage in and manage the mathematical demands of a range of situations in adult life. In this updated definition and in the elaboration below, there are four core dimensions (previously called facets) described and used in PIAAC Cycle 2: * cognitive processes * content * representations * contexts
Page 98
Disposition, beliefs and attitudes The issue of choice or disposition when engaging with and solving a numeracy problem is an important factor to consider in an adult's use and application of mathematics in a real-world situation, and was addressed in the second section, including in the sub-section about Numerate behaviour and practices. Research literature suggests that the ways in which a person responds to a numeracy task, including overt actions as well as internal thought processes and the adoption of a critical stance, depend not only on their knowledge and skills but also potentially on their disposition and attitude towards mathematics. Negative attitudes towards mathematics, beliefs about one's mathematical skills, habits of mind, and prior experiences involving tasks with mathematical content are all key influencers on mathematics engagement and performance, alongside beliefs about mathematics and what it is for and who it is for (Geiger, Goos and Dole, 2014[125]; Goos, Geiger and Dole, 2014[124]; Lave, 1988[53]; Saxe, 1992[109]; Schliemann and Acioly, 1989[111]). Are individuals able to choose to use mathematics when it is relevant and appropriate?
