"A riot isht an ugly thing and it's about time we had one!"  Inspector Kemp - Young Frankenstein
As we see more and more awareness and pushback on the failure of Washington State's Public K12... a failure that can be directly attributed to the lack of accountability in, and the monopolization of that Government Service by Public Sector Unions... let's pause for a moment and make sure the pendulum doesn't swing past reason to an equally destructive over-correction.
First, we know our current system has failed specifically because the US Department of Education... with the assistance, support and even approval of ... IN PARTICULAR... WA Teachers' Unions... established standards (and tests) by which we could assess the performance of our Public K12 systems in getting students to a minimum level of proficiency in those standards.  And we have it disaggregated right down to the school, grade level and even student sub-group.  
The established standards were specifically designed to keep the US K12 system ... and presumably the individual student and in aggregate, our future US workforce... competitive in a world economy.  That our Public K12 system has dropped from the top 3 to mid 30's or lower and we are now ranked below average in the 72 participating nations using a similar testing is a claxon to anyone paying attention.
We've all seen claims, accusations and proposed solutions.  Those that are particularly frightening to me are ones demanding downward changes to or the elimination of the standards used to assess student performance and proficiency.  That is exactly what the Unions (and Chris Rykdal) did when it became evident that our system was failing; change the standards so that more students pass... or rather, appear to have passed.
Change... if not reform... is needed.  And that change is needed urgently.  In a world that will increasingly be driven by AI and robotics it is entirely possible the standards we should use to asses our Public k12 system should also change.  
But any change to those standards should be done with the same if not greater level of deliberation and rigor than went into establishing the current standards... and not by emotionally driven mobs with special interests and agendas.  That is what drove us into this crisis!
This is not to suggest that we abdicate our responsibility to hold Public k21 accountable in any and every way including denying funding for a substandard product.  For the sake of our own interests and those of our children... it is paramount that we don't abdicate.  But we must act responsibly and from well-informed clarity of purpose... and not from emotionally driven outrage.



