Why the levy may have met resistance.
It appears the levy will fail.  I will not celebrate or lament.  But I would like to offer a perspective to the administrators apparently puzzled as to why it might be challenging to get one passed.
Even excepting the destruction caused by the Public K12 response to Covid we have had a decade's long FAILURE at YCS and Washington K12 in general.
Last year Yelm only managed to get 22.3% of its students to a minimum level of proficiency.  (Kudos to YCS for pushing this out on their website w/o spin.  Not all schools do that.)
Since 2014-15... Yelm's score has ranged from 19% to 30% and averaged 21% "met minimum".  
In contrast, the 2022-23 AVERAGE salary for Yelm teachers has risen to $81k for Elementary Teachers and $97k for Secondary Teachers. This for a 180 day work year, 7 hour work day.  The respective highs are $137k and $161k.  The later is where administrative salaries appear to start.
In Yelm, the average income is around $47k based typically on a 240-260 day work year, 8 hour work day:  Roughly a third of the average teacher salary apples to apples.  
To start the 2023-24 school year, Yelm Teachers held an illegal walkout.  Their demands included a salary increases and daily planning time to be incorporated into their 7 hour work day.  I am unaware of any effort by the Union to support the working families with young children during that walkout.  
As optics go this alone is on par with Marie Antoinette's "Let the them eat cake!"  But let's contextualize that.
Ten years ago Yelm (and Washington State) had a 13% success rate getting students to a MINIMUM level of proficiency;  Washington was facing sanctions under the No Child Left Behind Act;  Patty Murray and the Washington Teacher's Unions successfully led a national movement to replace the NCLB to avoid those sanctions and  to eliminate one in particular... that a teacher's evaluation be based, in part, on student performance;  Math, the cornerstone of business, technical advancement, critical thinking and quality initiatives... and a perennial problem for Public K12 is removed as a requisite school performance metric;  ANNNnddd... the Washington Teacher's Union Website publishes out "how to maximize your (teacher's) salary" in, as I recall, 4 years:  Specifically: take these classes and get these certifications. There is no mention of student proficiency.
Two years ago OSPI introduced a "new standard" for "met" so WA (and Yelm) can now claim a 50% pass rate;  performance under the old standard is reclassed as "college ready w/o remediation" but remains the same;  based on curriculum testing not publicly available, an estimated 50% of WA (and Yelm's) HS students are 3-6 YEARS behind in math; and it is highly likely the union contract protects by tenure so that newcomers with 1/3rd legacy salaries, even if they are higher performing, will be the first to get let go.  
Yes, there is some movement.  OSPI and Yelm are now referencing "Continuous School Improvement" though I have yet to meet anyone in K12 familiar with "Continuous Improvement" (CI) systems let alone trained or certified in one.  And, noticeably and critically missing from K12 CI practice is the concept of not advancing out of spec product.
Specifically?  Nobody familiar with CI systems would consider sending a "batch" from step 3 to step 4 where half the batch failed to meet minimal specs.  Nor would they propose implementing a step 9 to fix problems introduced in steps 3-8.  But that is exactly what we are seeing in Public K12.  
Why?  IT IS EXPENSIVE. Think 3 hrs/week individual tutoring for 60,000 WA 10th grade students in Math alone.  (Yelm's share is about 300). 
I agree, failing the levy won't fix the problem.  But 10 years of passing the levy and removing teacher (and administrator) accountability while increasing salaries clearly hasn't fixed it either.  
What we need is reform and innovation.  Not in the standards. Not in the test.  But rather in the management, process and accountability within the system.  
As a radical example:  What if we used the $14,314,718.00 spent on the 125 out of 300+ Yelm teachers making over $100k who are unaccountable to student performance and showing a 22.3% success  and used it to hire 238 "tutors" making $60k who were accountable to an 80% success?  


