For the third time in a week a retired teacher has cornered me at a social event to lament the state of our Public K12. This time it's a retired teacher from a family of teachers who is volunteering for her teacher daughter.  She begins, unprompted, to lament the current state of our K12 system.  The narrative is not a new.
"It's not like the old days.  We tell the them what to do and how to do it... but they just don't listen.  And the parents!  They don't make them do the work!" she complains.  The only thing missing was a bad German accent from a Mel Brooks movie:  "Ve tell zem vhut to do und...".  That the Public K12 system has failed is no longer a question; only where to place the blame.  
And where might that be?  It might be that the system is designed to fail.  
We have students that are promoted but unable to demonstrate MINIMUM grade level proficiencies to the point that we have a MAJORITY of 10th graders who are 3-6 YEARS behind... some lacking 3rd grade REQUISITE proficiencies.  
We have staff (teachers and administrators) who are rewarded based on the classes they take and the certifications they obtain (or the years they have taught)... and not on an objective measure of student proficiency.
ANNNNDDD... we have a Washington State Administration that is more concerned about making students feel included by focusing on their physical characteristics rather than on their ability to meet standards in proficiency.  
This latter is to the point that OSPI has evidently bastardized SMART (an acronym for a very successful project management framework) to a vomit worthy SMARTIE.
Yes, unable successfully implement SMART... our Public K12 leadership has decided to also burden our K12 system with the "IE" of "DEI".  No longer will Project Management Methods focus on JUST Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Realistic goals and objectives that can be achieved in a set Time frame... but they will also ensure efforts are Equitable and Inclusive.
At YHS, that appears to come in the form of an Improvement Plan on the School Website.  This in turn will likely reference Kagan Cooperative Learning which advocates for "emphasizing the need for inclusivity in the classroom" which goes "hand in hand with Universal Design for Learning (UDL)" which champions "inclusivity in the classroom" under the premise of "team learning".

